---
---

I just wanted to add splash screens to the game.

## Issues

Multiple issues were discovered while trying to set a splash image for the game that I was developing;

* Selecting a splash image through the Editor only allows you to select *.bmp-files. This isn't consistent behaviour as when the editor or game starts up it will look in the Content/Splash folder for the specific file names and loop over an array of image file extensions.
* Splash image is copied with a *.BMP-file extension, regardless of the original extension.
* Default engine splash images are displayed in the editor front-end, even though custom ones have been defined in the project (which are being used at start-up).
* Splash image names are hard coded and can't be changed.

## Proposed solutions

### BMP only file selection

Change the `SExternalImagePicker` to accept an array of file extensions. This did require some rewriting of other pieces of code that pass data through to this class;

* class `SExternalImageReference`
* struct `FExternalImagePickerConfiguration`

`SExternalImageReference` is the top-most exposed Slate element that we need to add the file extensions to. This class create a `FExternalImagePickerConfiguration` that gets pass through by reference to `FExternalImagePickerModule`, which create the `SExternalImagePicker`.

Created a static array for the supported splash file extensions in `FGenericPlatformSplash`.

### Image copied with BMP extension

Before the copy is called, I chop off the old file extension and append the new one.

Before:

```
if(!SourceControlHelpers::CopyFileUnderSourceControl(InTargetImage, InChosenImage, LOCTEXT("ImageDescription", "image"), FailReason))
```

After:

```
const FString NewTargetImage = InTargetImage.LeftChop(4).Append(InChosenImage.Right(4));

FText FailReason;
if(!SourceControlHelpers::CopyFileUnderSourceControl(NewTargetImage, InChosenImage, LOCTEXT("ImageDescription", "image"), FailReason))
```

### Editor displays different images

Another issue that cropped up was, that if you placed some splash images in the Content/Splash folder with the correct file names, it would use the images during start up, but still display the wrong ones in the editor project settings.

### Additional investigation into the splash image sequence

When launching the editor the splash screen gets *launched* from `FEngineLoop::PreInit` via `FPlatformSplash::Show`. I was investigation this as I wanted to specify a custom splash screen name during start up that doesn't make the editor loop through all possible iterations of image file extensions that a splash screen could support. 
This also eliminates some frustration if you have multiple splash screens located in your *Content/Splash* folder, if all have the same file name, just different image file extensions. It would prioritise the file extensions in the following order:

1. PNG
2. JPG
3. BMP

This lead me to investigate when the config-files are loaded as they would be necessary to store the specific splash file name to use.

The `GConfig` variable gets assigned in `FConfigCacheIni::InitializeConfigSystem` which in turn gets called in `FEngineLoop::AppInit`, which also gets called in `FEngineLoop::PreInit`. Now I just needed to confirm this would get called in the correct order (`GConfig` gets assigned before calling `FPlatformSplash::Show`), which it does.

```
GConfig->GetString( TEXT("/Script/UnrealEd.EditorEngine"), TEXT("Splash"), SplashFileName, GEngineIni );
GConfig->GetString( TEXT("/Script/UnrealEd.EditorEngine"), TEXT("EdSplash"), EdSplashFileName, GEngineIni );
```

However I decide against modifying this.

Thanks!
